PR for SRVLOGIC-481: Document "workflow eventing system" section in the Serverless Logic product docs (#85644)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/serverless-logic-linking-workflows-eventing-system.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * serverless-logic/serverless-logic-workflow-eventing-system

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="serverless-logic-linking-workflows-eventing-system_{context}"]
= Linking workflows to the eventing system

The {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} links workflows with the eventing system using Knative Eventing, SinkBindings, and triggers. These objects are created automatically by the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} and simplify the production and consumption of workflow events.

The following example shows the Knative Eventing objects created for an `example-workflow` configured with a platform-scoped eventing system:

> .Example of platform-scoped eventing system configuration

Reviewer: Heading would be optional given that a lead-in sentence exists. I could be wrong.

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: sonataflow.org/v1alpha08
kind: SonataFlowPlatform
metadata:
  name: sonataflow-platform-example

>   namespace: example-namespace

Reviewer: User-replaced values should be surrounded by angle brackets.

example-namespace > <example-namespace>

spec:
  eventing:
    broker:
      ref:
        name: example-broker <1>
        apiVersion: eventing.knative.dev/v1
        kind: Broker
  services:
    dataIndex: <2>
      enabled: true
    jobService: <3>

>       enabled: true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      enabled: true
# ...
```

If the definition is not a complete YAML.

  name: example-broker
  namespace: example-namespace
spec:
  config:
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: ConfigMap
    name: kafka-broker-config
    namespace: knative-eventing
----

<1> The Kafka class is used to create the `example-broker`.

The following example displays how the `example-workflow` is automatically linked to the `example-broker` in the `example-namespace` for event production and consumption:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: sonataflow.org/v1alpha08
kind: SonataFlow
metadata:
  name: example-workflow
  namespace: example-namespace
  annotations:
    sonataflow.org/description: Example Workflow
    sonataflow.org/version: 0.0.1
    sonataflow.org/profile: preview
spec:
  flow:
    start: ExampleStartState
    events:
      - name: outEvent1
        source: ''
        kind: produced
        type: out-event-type1 <1>
      - name: inEvent1
        source: ''
        kind: consumed
        type: in-event-type1 <2>
      - name: inEvent2
        source: ''
        kind: consumed
        type: in-event-type2 <3>
    states:
      - name: ExampleStartState
    ...
----

<1> The `example-workflow` outgoing events are produced by using the SinkBinding `example-workflow-sb`.

> <2> Events of type `in-event-type1` are consumed using the `example-workflow-inevent1-b40c067c-595b-4913-81a4-c8efa980bc11` trigger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Events of type `in-event-type1` are consumed by using the `example-workflow-inevent1-b40c067c-595b-4913-81a4-c8efa980bc11` trigger.
```

<3> Events of type `in-event-type2` are consumed using the `example-workflow-inevent2-b40c067c-595b-4913-81a4-c8efa980bc11` trigger.

You can list the automatically created SinkBinding `example-workflow-sb` by using the following command:

.Example of Knative Eventing SinkBinding listing
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get sinkbindings -n example-namespace
----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                          TYPE            RESOURCE                                   SINK                              READY
example-workflow-sb                  SinkBinding   sinkbindings.sources.knative.dev   broker:example-broker   True
----

You can use the following command to list the automatically created triggers for event consumption:

.Example of Knative Eventing trigger listing
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get triggers -n example-namespace

Reviewer: User-replaced value and a callout should be used here.

----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----

> NAME                                                              BROKER           SINK                                                     AGE   CONDITIONS   READY   REASON

Reviewer: In the preview the formatting of headings to output is off. Can this be corrected?

Maybe the Verbatim attribute might help solidify spaces.

![Screenshot from 2025-01-08 12-45-19](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/99fca6a4-4544-48ef-a73b-ef8149cbf51c)

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * serverless-logic/serverless-logic-workflow-eventing-system

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="serverless-logic-linking-workflows-eventing-system_{context}"]
= Linking workflows to the eventing system

The {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} links workflows with the eventing system using Knative Eventing, SinkBindings, and triggers. These objects are created automatically by the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} and simplify the production and consumption of workflow events.

> The following example shows the Knative Eventing objects created for an `example-workflow` configured with a platform-scoped eventing system:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example shows the Knative Eventing objects created for an `example-workflow` workflow configured with a platform-scoped eventing system:
```

> .Example of platform-scoped eventing system configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
Redundant with line no 10

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: sonataflow.org/v1alpha08
kind: SonataFlowPlatform
metadata:
  name: sonataflow-platform-example
  namespace: example-namespace
spec:
  eventing:
    broker:
      ref:
        name: example-broker <1>
        apiVersion: eventing.knative.dev/v1
        kind: Broker
  services:
    dataIndex: <2>
      enabled: true
    jobService: <3>
      enabled: true
  ...
----

> <1> The `example-broker` is used by the Data Index, Jobs Service, and the `example-workflow`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<1> The `example-broker` object is used by the Data Index, Jobs Service, and the `example-workflow` workflow .
```

<2> The Data Index is deployed with ephemeral configurations.
<3> The Jobs Service is deployed with ephemeral configurations.

> The `example-broker` is a Kafka class Broker, and its configuration is defined in the `kafka-broker-config` ConfigMap.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `example-broker` object is a Kafka class Broker, and its configuration is defined in the `kafka-broker-config` config map.
```

The following example displays how to configure a Kafka Knative Broker for use with the SonataFlowPlatform:

> .Example of Knative Kafka Broker used by the SonataFlowPlatform

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

Redundant with lin no 41

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: eventing.knative.dev/v1
kind: Broker
metadata:
  annotations:
    eventing.knative.dev/broker.class: Kafka <1>
  name: example-broker
  namespace: example-namespace
spec:
  config:
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: ConfigMap
    name: kafka-broker-config
    namespace: knative-eventing
----

> <1> The Kafka class is used to create the `example-broker`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<1> The Kafka class is used to create `example-broker`.
```

or the `example-broker` object.

Author: I will use: _The Kafka class is used to create the `example-broker` object._

The following example displays how the `example-workflow` is automatically linked to the `example-broker` in the `example-namespace` for event production and consumption:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: sonataflow.org/v1alpha08
kind: SonataFlow
metadata:
  name: example-workflow
  namespace: example-namespace
  annotations:
    sonataflow.org/description: Example Workflow
    sonataflow.org/version: 0.0.1
    sonataflow.org/profile: preview
spec:
  flow:
    start: ExampleStartState
    events:
      - name: outEvent1
        source: ''
        kind: produced
        type: out-event-type1 <1>
      - name: inEvent1
        source: ''
        kind: consumed
        type: in-event-type1 <2>
      - name: inEvent2
        source: ''
        kind: consumed
        type: in-event-type2 <3>
    states:
      - name: ExampleStartState
    ...
----

> <1> The `example-workflow` outgoing events are produced by using the SinkBinding `example-workflow-sb`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<1> The `example-workflow` outgoing events are produced by using the `SinkBinding` named `example-workflow-sb`.
```

  name: example-broker
  namespace: example-namespace
spec:
  config:
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: ConfigMap
    name: kafka-broker-config
    namespace: knative-eventing
----

<1> The Kafka class is used to create the `example-broker`.

The following example displays how the `example-workflow` is automatically linked to the `example-broker` in the `example-namespace` for event production and consumption:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: sonataflow.org/v1alpha08
kind: SonataFlow
metadata:
  name: example-workflow
  namespace: example-namespace
  annotations:
    sonataflow.org/description: Example Workflow
    sonataflow.org/version: 0.0.1
    sonataflow.org/profile: preview
spec:
  flow:
    start: ExampleStartState
    events:
      - name: outEvent1
        source: ''
        kind: produced
        type: out-event-type1 <1>
      - name: inEvent1
        source: ''
        kind: consumed
        type: in-event-type1 <2>
      - name: inEvent2
        source: ''
        kind: consumed
        type: in-event-type2 <3>
    states:
      - name: ExampleStartState
    ...
----

<1> The `example-workflow` outgoing events are produced by using the SinkBinding `example-workflow-sb`.

> <2> Events of type `in-event-type1` are consumed using the trigger.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<2> Events of type `in-event-type1` are consumed using the trigger `example-workflow-inevent1-b40c067c-595b-4913-81a4-c8efa980bc11`.
```

> <3> Events of type `in-event-type2` are consumed using the trigger.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<3> Events of type `in-event-type2` are consumed using the trigger `example-workflow-inevent2-b40c067c-595b-4913-81a4-c8efa980bc11`.
```

> You can create the SinkBinding `example-workflow-sb` for producing events by using the following commands:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can list the automatically created SinkBinding `example-workflow-sb` by using the following command:
```

> .Example of Knative Eventing SinkBinding 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Example of Knative Eventing SinkBinding listing
```

[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get sinkbindings -n example-namespace

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ kn source list -n example-namespace
```

> ----

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                          TYPE            RESOURCE                                   SINK                              READY
example-workflow-sb                  SinkBinding   sinkbindings.sources.knative.dev   broker:example-broker   True
----

----

```

> .Example output

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> [source,terminal]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> ----

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> NAME                                                      BROKER           SINK                         READY   REASON

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> example-workflow-inevent1-b40c067c-595b-4913-81a4-c8efa980bc11    example-broker   service:example-workflow   True    

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion    
```

> example-workflow-inevent2-b40c067c-595b-4913-81a4-c8efa980bc11    example-broker   service:example-workflow   True

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> ----

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> The `example-workflow-inevent1-b40c067c-595b-4913-81a4-c8efa980bc11` and `example-workflow-inevent2-b40c067c-595b-4913-81a4-c8efa980bc11` triggers are created for consuming events by using the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can list the automatically created Triggers for consuming events by using the following command:
```

> .Example of Knative Eventing trigger 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Example of Knative Eventing Trigger listing 
```

[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get triggers -n example-namespace

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ kn trigger list -n example-namespace
```

----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----

> kn trigger list -n example-namespace

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
